welcome to nor boards DIY instructional
video on roof sheathing installation
over the next few minutes we'll share
some valuable tips for the correct
installation of roof sheathing panels
like nor boards solar board and true
board when attempting any building
project it's important to check your
local building codes for the
requirements in your area for specifics
such as fastener spacing panel thickness
and whether H clips or other hardware is
required it's important to keep panels
dry while they're in storage on the
construction site or being installed
like all wood products Moisture causes
expansion so if you can't store your
panels indoors keep them completely
covered with waterproofed art material
ventilated out the sides and well off
the ground before installing any roof
sheathing always check for any crooked
or improperly installed framing members
confirm that all framing members are
straight spaced properly and aligned
correctly whether using trusses or
conventional framing always use a level
square and chalk lines by taking the
time to ensure all framing members are
straight and square before installing
any panels you will save time prevent
costly repairs and will achieve a far
better result always confirm your
sheathing has the correct span rating
for your project
for example sheathing with a thickness
of 7/16 of an inch has a span rating of
24 over 16 this means the maximum
spacing for supports under roof
application is 24 inches on Center next
make sure you check the strength axis
this is usually parallel to the long
dimension of the panel if that is the
case the sheeting must be installed with
the long dimension perpendicular to the
framing also structural sheathing must
span two or more Bay's between framing
members always install roof sheathing
with the grade stamped facing into the
Attic in most cases this means the rough
surface will face outward giving you
better traction while working on the
panels if you're building in a warm
climate zone and are installing a
radiant barrier sheathing like solar
board make sure to install it with the
foil facing inward
it's important to leave an 8-inch gap
between all panel edges again since
panels may expand or contract due to
moisture conditions this eight inch gap
minimizes the risk of panels buckling
true board and solar board are sized for
this you can use a tendon ale to help
with the spacing to make placing the
first row of panels easier set a couple
of nails into the framing the panel will
rest on these nails while you fasten it
in place start at a lower corner of the
roof with a full panel install panels
across the length of the roof check that
all supports are square as you go and
remember space all panels an eighth of
an inch apart
typically perimeter fasteners are spaced
six inches apart on Center along the
edges and 24 inches apart in the center
portions of the panel unless building
codes or specifications state otherwise
closer spacing is always preferable as
helps to minimize buckling and uplift
also fasteners should be 3/8 of an inch
in from panel edges and each corner
requires a fastener the last panel may
have to be cut to fit but remember all
panels must span a minimum of two Bay's
each row of panels must have their four
foot joints offset from the row below so
the first panel of the second row will
likely be a half panel place attendee
nail into the rafter at the upper edge
of the first row to accommodate the
eighth inch spacing and install each
clips if required
after that four foot by four foot
panelists fastened in place remove the
10 D nails and use them to help space
the next panel use full sheets to
complete the second row of panels
finally it's important that all vertical
joints fall on solid framing be sure to
cover the roof with felt and shingles as
soon as possible if for some reason
shingles cannot be installed right away
install a second layer of felt to
protect your sheathing from any adverse
effects due to weather conditions that
concludes our DIY instructional video on
roof sheathing installation hopefully
these tips will make your next project
safer easier and more rewarding if
like to learn more about building
stronger and smarter with Newports
panels visit nor board comm / roof
sheeting thanks for watching
you